Good morning.
Welcome to session 213,
Introduction to High Resolution on OS X.
My name is Dan Schimpf.
I'm an engineer on the
Cocoa Frameworks team.
I'd like to start with a
little bit of an introduction.
As you all know,
2x Retina displays arrived
first with the iPhone 4.
On the Mac side,
we've only really had one scale
factor to deal with for a long time.
There's been many different screen sizes,
of course, but only one scale factor
for the pixels on screen.
That's, of course, until now.
The good part is OS X takes care of a
lot of the details for you and your apps.
But full adoption for your
applications will require some work,
but it's going to be worth it, trust us.
So here's what we're going
to be talking about today.
Brief overview of what
High Resolution is for the Mac.
Then we're going to talk about some
things you need to do to optimize
your application for High Resolution.
Talk about what to do
with your bitmap images.
Talk about your icons in the
Finder and your document icons.
Talk about some final touches
to make your application really
the best on the new hardware.
And some problems you may come into
while you're optimizing your application.
So how does High Resolution work?
So there are new High Resolution
display modes for the retina
displays on the new hardware.
The screens in the windows now
have a 4:1 pixel per point density.
and the frameworks provide the
scaling between the 1X and the 2X
operation for your Windows and screens.
The Quartz Window Manager,
which manages all of the windows
and the display on the screen,
ensures a consistent presentation
of these windows across multiple
displays of different scale factors.
What is High Resolution?
What are we talking about here?
Well, with High Resolution,
the number of pixels on
screen actually quadruples.
You may see 2X, but you actually get four
times as many pixels.
So, that's four pixels on
screen for each point.
Well, what is a point?
Point is a unit of measurement.
It's commonly referred
to as 1/72 of an inch,
although on actual computer monitors,
this can vary.
And what this leads to is more
pixels to display your text,
sharper text and more detailed graphics,
as we say.
So let's do a quick demonstration.
This is a point on screen.
There are many points like it,
but this one is mine.
So at 1x,
that point corresponds to one pixel.
That pixel may be big or small,
but it's one point equals one pixel.
At 2x, we have the same point,
but that corresponds to four
pixels in the same area.
So how does this compare to iOS,
which you may be familiar with?
Well, it's actually very similar.
The basic tenets are the same
between the two platforms.
They both have an
integral UI scale factor,
1x and 2x,
and they both provide a lot of automatic
scaling from the application frameworks.
There are some enhanced functionality
for the unique needs of OS X,
particularly in the realm
of multiple displays.
If you have multiple displays attached,
one can be at 1X,
another one can be at 2X,
depending on the capabilities
of that hardware.
So there's unique functionality
in OS X to handle this.
This corresponds to
Windows versus screens,
because different screens
have different scale factors,
so that means different Windows can
have different scale factors as well.
And the Mac has to be more dynamic
in terms of the resolution changes.
Displays coming and going,
the user changing the settings as well.
More pixels on screen means
we can do more with them.
If there's a yellow blob on screen at 1X,
you can see there's lots
of fuzziness on the edges.
But if we take it to 2X,
we can show a finer detail.
And with the same,
let's say the same shape,
the same mathematical shape corresponds
to a sharper detail in that shape.
So here we are at 1X again.
16 by 8, 16 pixels, 16 points, with,
but we got a 2X,
all of a sudden we have 32 pixels
for the same number of 16 points.
So how does this work?
On OS X,
we've got a unified coordinate system.
That means all coordinates are in points.
This means view frames, window locations,
screen sizes,
all these things are in points.
And because different displays
can be different scale factors,
it can differ by screen and window.
But the good news is, for the most part,
your apps don't need to care about this.
You just pay attention to
what we're telling you,
and your applications will probably work,
for the most part, without any changes.
So here's two screens
hooked up to your system.
They both have the same number of points.
Because one is running at 2x,
they both show up with
the same number of points.
But it turns out the 2x one
actually has two times as
many pixels on each dimension.
So they come across as
the same logical size.
So how does this work with
your current apps right now?
Well, by default,
Cocoa apps are scaled automatically.
That means that you get sharp text
and crisp Aqua graphics for free.
Well,
except your custom bitmaps that you have,
they're not going to be optimized.
We can't invent pixels that aren't there.
So they're just going to be magnified.
By default, Carbon apps are magnified.
This means that the text and
UI widgets are magnified as well
and needing to be unoptimized.
So here's what you need to
do with your app to make them
ready for High Resolution.
First, you're going to go through
all of your 1x bitmaps,
and you're going to need to add
2x representations of all of them.
and then you're going to
need to do High Resolution
icons for use in the Finder.
These are your application
icons and your document icons.
Then you're going to need to look through
your code for any uses of deprecated API,
things that may have been hanging
around maybe a bit too long,
and now's a good time to switch to
a more modern equivalent because it
turns out these modern methods are
more capable of handling things.
They have more information.
We can make better decisions about them.
And while you're doing that,
also look through and see if you're
making any bad assumptions about pixels.
We've long said that one point
does not equal one pixel,
and now's the time where
we're making it real.
But perhaps the best thing
to do is just give it a try.
If you get your hands on some hardware,
you can try it out there,
but you can also try it
out on your home system.
You don't need to wait for
your hardware to show up,
and you may be surprised
by how well it works.
So here's how to test it at home
before your hardware shows up.
If you haven't already,
install the graphics tools for Xcode,
because you're going to want to
open Quartz Debug and open the
UI Resolution window from the menu bar.
And you're going to select
High DPI Display Modes.
And what that's going to do is
after you log out and log back in--
You can use the
Display System Preferences pane
to select a high DPI display mode.
This is an example from a laptop,
which will be kind of small if you
don't have the nice new hardware,
but you can still use it to test.
Okay, I'm going to hand it over
to my colleague Patrick,
who's going to talk more about
what to do with your artwork.
Thank you, Dan.
So, my name is Patrick Heynen,
and I'm here to tell you about artwork.
Why are we talking about artwork?
Well, at the end of the day,
with the Retina display,
it's really all about pixels, isn't it?
and well executed designs really can have
an extraordinary impact on the quality,
on the impact on your application
and how well it looks.
Let's take a look at some case
studies here of Standard Resolution
versus High Resolution,
just to give you an idea of what the
difference really is and what Retina
really gives you for your application.
So this is Final Cut Pro X,
and what we're looking at here is
a standard resolution screenshot.
And this is the Retina
Resolution screenshot.
I'm going to go back and forward.
Now, what I'd like to call attention
to here is that it's not
just a standard upscale here,
but the opportunity here is to
actually add significant amounts of
detail to your application graphics
and really put a whole different
look and feel onto your product.
So, for example,
I'd like to call attention
to the camera icon there.
With Standard Resolution,
there's probably not much going on there,
a few little details.
But at High Resolution,
there's a whole lot more detail.
And there's also other subtle things
you can do to your design on Retina
Display that are just simply not
possible at Standard Resolution.
Let's look at another example here.
This is Reminders.
This is Reminders at Standard Resolution
and at Retina Resolution.
Standard Resolution.
Retina Resolution.
I'd like to call attention to the
finer detail on the paper texture
and some of the subtle highlights and
gradients that are much more able to be
rendered in a much more higher quality
fashion at the Retina Resolution level.
What do you need to do to
achieve these kind of results?
Well,
graphics resources simply need to be
created at twice the pixel density.
And you just need to integrate these new
@2x image resources into your project,
and you're done.
It's really that easy.
There is not really, in normal cases with
well-behaved Cocoa applications,
you really do not need to write
any code to integrate these
High Resolution artwork assets.
So it's really easy.
A few things to keep in mind here,
uprezzing large quantities of
graphics in applications that feature
a lot of graphic resources can
be a very challenging design test.
And I want to emphasize here
for those of you who are maybe
involved in design test as well,
this is not to be underestimated,
this portion of the project.
In fact, it has been our experience that
artwork-related tasks can typically
consume over 50% of the overall
effort of making your application
optimized for the retina display.
It's not just a bunch of image files.
There's a huge amount of work
and there's a lot of organization
that has to go into it.
And good communication between
designer and developers are essential
to making this process run smoothly.
Otherwise,
it can be death by a thousand paper
So let's get more into the
technical nitty-gritty.
So what kind of image resource
categories do you have to worry
about for High Resolution?
Well, there's really three: a bitmap,
a vector,
and application and document icons.
I'm going to talk about each of these
and some of the unique considerations for
each of these under the Retina display.
So, bitmap image resources.
This is perhaps the most common
category of image resources.
And here,
the most important thing to know
about is that there is a file naming
convention that we have taken from iOS,
which is the @2x file name suffix.
It works very simply
and straightforwardly.
You have your standard resolution
asset with just a normal file name,
and then you take that same file name,
add the @2x suffix,
and that should be -- and that is how
you indicate to the system that this
is a double resolution retina asset.
So, some details about this.
So the @2x assets differ from the
standard resolution assets in that
they have exactly twice as many pixels.
And they should be exactly twice
the width and height in pixels.
Of course, the thing to keep in mind is,
on actual display,
these things are going to be the same
physical size on the Retina display as
their standard resolution counterparts.
This is frequently forgotten,
but it's an essential point that
I'm going to be circling around
in a bunch of different ways.
So here, once again,
this is looking at things
just pixel for pixel.
But of course,
on the actual Retina display,
point for point,
that's what it's going to look like.
So, how does this look like in code?
How do you achieve success?
How do you get this magic automatic
behavior where you don't have
to write a single line of code?
Well, it does help if you've already
written the right code to begin with.
So, NSImage will automatically locate
and use the high resolution 2x image
representations if you use the image
lookup by name constructors for NSImage.
NSImage also supports
multi-resolution TIFFs,
which you can generate automatically
using Xcode's combined High Resolution
images project build setting.
And that presents some slight
efficiencies in file system and
runtime performance as well.
So that's another option
you have available to you.
So how does NSImage help you
in this High Resolution world?
Well, the magic thing about NSImage is
that it actually is able to handle
rendering of an image at any resolution,
both Standard Resolution
and High Resolution.
And this is actually critically
important for the Mac compared to iOS,
because on the Mac,
you have multiple displays with
multiple possible resolutions.
And in NSImage, because of its ability to
support multiple representations,
both Standard and High Resolution,
in the same NSImage object instance,
it can be ready for duty
in any resolution context.
So, once again,
you need to make sure you use
the by name lookup to get this
automatic behavior where it finds the
appropriately named file name resources.
There's either the classic
NSImageImageNamed or the
new NSBundle category method
we introduced in 10.7 Lion,
which allows you to do the same by name
lookup from any arbitrary NSBundle,
not just the main app bundle.
Keep in mind, with NSImage,
the size of the image,
the size of the NSImage instance,
that is, is always in points.
But the pixel geometry of the individual
representations may actually vary.
In fact, for proper operation,
the second representation should
always be ideally twice the
pixel geometry of the first.
And then at draw time,
what NSImage does is it actually
chooses the best representation to
draw based on the characteristics
of the rendering destination.
So it computes how many pixels
it's going to draw into,
and then looks at the
representations it has,
and picks the one that's
going to be the best match.
So in a High Resolution scenario,
in a 32 by 32 point
destination rectangle,
it's going to pick the 2x64
by 64 pixel representation.
In contrast, both CG image and UI image,
for that matter,
have a geometry that's always in pixels.
Actually,
CG image isn't always in pixels.
UI image is slightly different.
And it's only limited to one resolution.
So if you're working
with CG image directly,
you have to do some of this
management yourself and be
aware of the difference there.
Okay, so the next image category,
Vector Image Resources.
Here we're really, at the end of the day,
talking about PDF.
And the nice thing about PDF is
that they scale automatically,
both to any user size, that is, you know,
size on screen,
as well as to any pixel density.
So that, in some ways,
they're ideal for High Resolution.
[Transcript missing]
The way template images work is we
just treat the image as a shape.
And they're typically indicated
by either having the file
name suffix and in template,
or you can mark an image as a
template by saying NSImageSetTemplate,
yes?
And what happens is at draw time,
AppKit actually takes that shape that
you provide and uses some image effects
to actually provide context-specific
appearance appropriate to the current
state of the control or the window.
So, for example,
you automatically get pressed, disabled,
inactive, you know, rollover appearances.
All that stuff is provided
automatically and matches the
look and feel of the system.
And most importantly,
this effects rendering and the
rasterization of your shape is
done at full backing resolution,
which means you automatically
get a high-quality look on both
standard and high resolution.
Okay,
so that covers vector image resources.
Now let's talk about
application and document icons.
So you may have encountered these before.
These are the traditional
back by ICNS files.
And these are some-- and
they're used by Finder,
Open Save Panel, Spotlight Menu,
a couple other areas.
These are really the way your
application advertises itself
to the rest of the system.
So you don't typically see
these resources in your app,
but they're typically consumed by
other Apple software or other pieces
of software outside of your app.
So they're an important part of
the overall imagery of your app.
Now, they're kind of special, right?
Because ICNS files and icons in general
are the only sort of image category that
have both-- have a variable user size.
They have the magical property that
they can be rendered any size and are
supposed to have a high quality result at
almost any size that you draw them into.
So, how does it do this?
Well, ICNS, as you may know,
has five slots for providing
individual bitmap representations.
16x16, 32x32, 128, 256, and 512.
And then what happens at draw time,
very similar to the way
I described in this image working,
it just chooses the most appropriate
pixel slot based on how many
pixels it's about to draw into.
So, for example,
if on High Resolution we're drawing
into a 128-point point rectangle,
which really is 256 pixels,
it'll just go and find
that 256-pixel slot,
take that representation, and draw it.
So what's the problem?
Why am I even blathering on about this?
Well, there is a problem, unfortunately.
Retina displays are different.
Let's go into detail here,
what I mean here.
So let's look at a 16 by 16 icon.
So at 2x,
that's what you really want to draw,
a 16 by 16 icon.
As for example, in a list view in Finder
or in the Open Panel,
you really need 32 pixels.
[Transcript missing]
Now, here's a key point.
There's two key points I'm
going to talk about here.
And I'm going to spend a
little bit of time on them.
First off,
icons with the same pixel count,
but different target resolution--
by target resolution,
I really mean target pixel density--
may need different visual treatment
because of the display size.
Since these are not just the same-- these
are the same exact amount of pixels,
but because on a retina display,
things are so much physically smaller,
from a graphical design perspective,
you will probably find yourself
needing to use different heuristics
to get the same perceptual effect.
You might want to, for example,
strengthen and emphasize strokes,
use slightly more saturated colors,
or just use a slightly different
graphical treatment than you
would at the same physical size
on a standard resolution display,
just because the perceptual
characteristics of the
retina display are different.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so what have we done to
actually make this happen?
Two things.
The first is we have enhanced
the ICNS format to support 2X
variants for every user size slot.
And by the way,
everything I mention here,
although it's got that new badge,
it's actually new in
10.7.4 and Mountain Lion.
It's not just limited to Mountain Lion.
So it's starting with the
new MacBook Pro right now.
Under High Resolution,
these @2x variants are prioritized
when you're actually drawing
to a retina display or a high
resolution window backing store.
and some of you who have been following
this story of High Resolution over
the years would like to know that --
would be interested to know that the
1024 by 1024 size that we introduced
last year has now been just relabeled.
It's now the 512 by 512 at 2X.
And the 1024 size slot itself
is effectively deprecated.
Not every slot in this full matrix
needs to be populated for the Icon
runtime machinery to work correctly,
but having all of the 2x
counterparts is kind of
recommended as a practical measure.
Because once you go to the effort of
doing your optimization for Retina,
it's really just simpler
to just provide them all.
That's been our experience
at the very least.
Okay, next.
So how do you actually create
one of these image resources
with this crazy new format?
Well,
you may have used Icon Composer before,
and it's got the workflow of building
an icon one image well at a time.
You get your graphics from wherever,
and then you've got to go drag
them in into all these image wells.
Well, we've decided that's just
fundamentally broken,
that whole workflow.
So Icon Composer is effectively
deprecated as of now.
And there was much rejoicing.
So what have we done to replace it?
Well, we're introducing
something called Icon Sets.
Icon Sets are a new icon art
delivery format for High Resolution.
And what it really is,
it's really actually quite simple.
It's almost too simple.
It's just a folder and
file naming convention.
So it's a folder, and it has to have a
suffix called .iconset.
And what it contains inside of it
are a whole bunch of PNG files,
and they look a little familiar,
and they should.
They have their-- just like
standard bitmap graphic resources,
except with one additional twist.
They have encoded into the file name
not just whether they're standard
resolution and high resolution,
but also what size slot they conform to.
And so there's a standard naming
convention for each of these
files organized into a folder
with the .iconset extension.
And this is the way that we
expect you to integrate your
artwork into your project sources.
So, what are the features and
benefits of icon sets?
Well, first and foremost,
they are a much better fit
with existing design workflows.
I'm going to demonstrate
this in a second,
but really,
given that designers are working
in some random image authoring app
to actually create these things,
what they know how to do
really well and reliably,
which is very important,
is create a bunch of bitmap
images like PNG files.
What nobody likes to do is have
to then use a different tool to
transform what their master file
is into what they actually have to
integrate into the project sources.
So, this gets rid of that,
eliminates that middleman,
and just allows designers to
create exactly what needs to be
integrated into project sources.
Also, not to be underestimated,
much more reliable color
management because,
again,
there's less transformation going on
between the icon art deliveries and what
happens on its way into the software.
And speaking of on its
way into the software,
the magic thing about icon sets is we've
added support in Xcode to automatically
transform these into compliant
ICNS files at project build time.
So Xcode 4.4 and 4.5 have been
augmented to understand icon sets
as a basic graphic resource and
can automatically transform these.
Just like the way that ping
files and add to X pings can get
transformed automatically to TIFFs,
it also knows how to convert
icon sets into ICNSs.
We've also provided a quick look
plugin for verification of icon sets.
So for example, if you're a designer,
you want to make sure that
what you've just generated is
actually working correctly and is
properly registered and aligned.
You can just hit the space bar in
the finder on the folder and it
pops a little UI with a slider.
I'll demonstrate that in a second.
We've also provided a command line tool,
IconUtil, ships as part of the
base system as of 10.7.4,
which allows you to go back and forth
between ICNS files and icon sets,
convert back and forth.
It's very simple, doesn't do much more.
But it's quite handy.
Also, one last little thing we
added to IconComposer,
in case you've lost your original
sources to your icons and you need
a way to bootstrap the process,
we've added a export to icon
set feature to IconComposer.
And that's available in the graphics
tools image for Xcode 4.4 and later.
Okay, that's enough talking.
Let's do some demoing.
So, what we've got here is we've got an
actual MacBook Pro with Retina display.
And the first thing I'm going to
demonstrate is how the process
of adding High Resolution
artwork to your application.
So, we've got a wonderful,
really mission-critical
application here called Fishbike.
And what I'd like to call your
attention to here is that it has
pretty low resolution graphics.
What is up with that?
And it doesn't do much.
It plays a few sounds if
the sound levels were up.
But that's okay.
We'll try that again when we
add our High Resolution artwork.
So, I happen to have gotten an
artwork delivery from my designer.
And look, there it is.
There's the bike and the fish
with the appropriate file names,
and I'm going to add it
to my resources folder.
And I'm going to copy them into place.
And I'm going to rebuild.
And voila.
It's that simple.
There is no step three.
Let's see if the sound works.
Oh, yeah.
That's a fish sound if I ever heard one.
And that's a bike sound,
if I ever heard one.
It's a really important app.
OK.
So that's the process of adding artwork.
Now, but I'm still missing an
icon for my application.
So what do I do about that?
Well, my designer gave me a
folder called New Icon.
What's in here?
Oh my goodness.
He gave me his source files.
He was a bit lazy.
He didn't create an icon set.
Well, let's go figure out how
that's actually done.
So what I have here is
I have a template file,
which is a sort of a typical-- you
don't have to use this kind of workflow,
but this is a very typical
kind of design workflow,
where you have a single
Photoshop template with all
of your various sizes in it.
Over here are all the standard
resolution representations.
And here are all the 2x representations.
And you'll notice that
there are a variety,
that the image is all sliced up.
Every one of the representations
has a little slice around it.
And what that allows me to do is
if I use the Save for Web feature,
I can use this little setting
export that I created myself,
and all this does is it just makes
sure that it places them all into
a folder called myicon.iconset.
It doesn't do anything
really fancy beyond that.
Create those out.
[Transcript missing]
And you notice here,
you can sort of see here implicitly
all the names of the files.
So the file names are actually--the
little missing link I should have
mentioned before is this is using
the Photoshop feature where the file
names are encoded as slice names so
that when you do use the Safer Web,
it automatically creates these files.
And let's take a look
And perfect.
Fully transparent icon.
Let me just demo it here.
So this is the Quick Look plugin
that gives you the little slider
that lets you exercise all the
different sizes of the icons.
And actually,
if I had a multiple display set up here,
if I had, say, this display hooked up
to this MacBook Pro,
and I dragged this window across to it,
it would actually show
the standard resolution.
So what we're looking at
here are all the 2x reps.
If I were to present that window
on the standard resolution display,
it would show me the 1x reps.
So it's a good way to debug your icon.
So, well, how do we add it to our app?
Well, first,
let's name it something appropriate.
And now let's go back
to our Fishbike app,
and let's add it to the resources here.
And let's rebuild.
And I don't know if you noticed that,
but I'll bring it up here.
Voila,
we have a beautiful icon already built.
Built automatically by Xcode.
And just because it's fun,
play the sounds again.
Oh, that's definitely a fish sound.
: All right.
I think we're done.
We've got a perfectly optimized
High Resolution app for the
MacBook Pro right in the display.
All right.
And that's the end of my demo.
I'm going to hand it back
over to my colleague,
Dan Schimpf.
And he's going to talk about some
final touches you can put on your
apps and some considerations.
You go, Dan.
Thank you, Patrick.
Thank you.
Okay.
So what are some final things
you're going to need to know
about as you work on this?
As I said before,
the display scale is dynamic.
It can change.
The user is allowed
to change it any time.
They can attach a different display.
They can attach a projector.
That is a different scale factor.
They can drag a window from
one display to another.
That's changing its scale factor.
Here's a quick demonstration
of how that works.
If I've got a 1x display and a 2x
display right next to each other,
and I've got a window
straddled between both of them.
As you can see,
the window is labeled 1x right now.
That's because it's
primarily on the 1x side.
The display that owns more of
the window wins in this case.
So what happens when the user, say,
drags it over to the 2x side?
Well, now more than 50% of that
window is on the 2X display,
so the window automatically rebuilds
itself into a 2X backing store.
So how do you do this?
How do you react to display changes?
Well, you don't need to do much.
In fact,
you may not need to do anything at all.
NSWindow automatically redraws
itself when it switches scale factor.
So that means that any content that you
have that's dynamic automatically works.
If you're caching bitmap drawing,
you may have to do some extra work.
So preferably don't cache any
drawing at a specific scale factor.
But if you do,
what you have to do is invalidate
that cache at the react to
the change when it happens.
Let's talk a little about deprecated
API that you may still be using,
but is going to cause you some trouble
when moving to High Resolution.
Convert Rect to Base.
It turns out this method
had two uses in the past,
and now in the High Resolution world,
those two different uses
have two different answers.
So we deprecated Convert Rect to Base,
and we're replacing it with two
methods for each of those two uses.
Convert Rect to Layer will deal
with converting a rectangle,
or there's also corresponding
size and point variance.
So you can convert those coordinates
from a view to its layer.
And then there's Convert Rect to View,
which has been around for a long time,
with a nil view to get
the window coordinates.
NSImage composite to point,
also dissolve to point.
This has been long deprecated and now
it will -- this is the time when you
really want to get rid of these calls
because they will have funny behaviors
at High Resolution in some cases.
We recommend using the NSImage
methods that begin with draw.
So if you're going to draw an image,
look for a method beginning with
draw and you should be all set.
NSScreen user space scale factor
is tied to the pre-10.7 model
of High Resolution interface,
and it will always return one now.
[Transcript missing]
If you're caching those bitmap drawings,
you may have to take some special
considerations to deal with
High Resolution accurately.
So the preferred way to do this is to
create an NSBitmapImageRep and then use
an NSGraphicsContext to draw it into.
The benefits of this is that
it's automatically scaled to the
correct scale factor for wherever
context you're drawing into.
CG bitmap context,
which some of you may be using,
is similar to CG image in
that it's measured in pixels.
So if you're going to
use CG bitmap context,
you're going to need to scale the
context yourself by the scale of
your final drawing destination.
Keep in mind that you need to
invalidate that cache when the
destination scale factor changes.
So that's something extra
you need to keep track of.
Okay.
So, let's talk about a few things,
a few problems you may run into
when you're converting your
application into High Resolution.
So my two X images aren't drawing.
I've got them.
I think they're there,
but I don't see them showing up.
My images are still a little bit fuzzy.
Well, first thing you should do is
check out your build product to
make sure they're actually there.
Maybe Xcode isn't including
them for some reason.
They're in the wrong spot.
Keep in mind that they
can either be at 2x ping,
or if you combine them to
a High Resolution TIFF,
you need to look for the TIFF.
And there's a tool in Quartz
Debug that helps you with this.
If you have Quartz
Debug installed already,
you can use the Tools menu
to enable Color 1x Artwork.
And this is similar to an option
that's available in the iOS Simulator,
where it will paint any image
that is scaling up from 1x to
2x to make them pop out at you.
Now my image is actually
drawing four times as big.
It's being scaled twice somehow.
So make sure you're not scaling this
twice inadvertently or on purpose
when we're already scaling it for you.
And again, the best thing to do here is
ignore the 2x as much as possible
and let AppKit handle it.
That will make your code
cleaner and make this better.
This is another case where
things like Composite to
Point really come back to bite you.
Depending on how your context is set up,
especially if you're doing
off-screen bitmap drawing,
using Composite to Point can sometimes
lead to image drawing way too big.
Let's say my views aren't aligned.
I'm doing some manual layout in code.
I'm setting some frame,
I'm calculating frames,
and now all of a sudden
they're just a little bit off.
There's maybe some pixel cracks.
So there's this method in NSView,
centerScanRect.
You pass it a frame,
it gives you back another frame that's
aligned on a good grid boundary.
And you're going to want
to use that instead of,
say, rounding the frame values yourself
or using floor or anything like that.
Because it turns out at 2x,
you can actually have something at 0.5x
and still be on a good grid boundary
because you've got a pixel there.
So it's not going to be misaligned.
[Transcript missing]
There can be rounding differences
between 1X and 2X because all the
pixel sizes are doubled at 2X.
So that means that there are really
no odd pixel values at 2X unless
you're doing something very custom.
And that can lead to some
rounding differences.
So if you can manage that,
try to control the rounding and see
if you can modify your 1x to match it.
So I'm doing some window layout,
and my window's in the wrong place now.
If you've been doing
High Resolution before,
you may be scaling your
window coordinates.
But you don't need to do that anymore.
Window coordinates,
just like everything else in the system,
are in points.
If I have a custom core animation layer,
it's not sharp, it's fuzzy.
You need to set the content scale
on layers that you manage yourself.
If AppKit is hosting that layer,
you don't need to worry about it.
We'll handle all the details for you.
But if you've got your own CA layer,
you need to handle the
content scale on that.
There's also a delegate method
you can handle this easily for
custom contents in the layer.
OpenGL content, by default,
for compatibility reasons,
is not opted into 2x drawing.
So you need to do that.
You need to opt into
sharp OpenGL drawing.
So now I'm going to do another
quick demo on some image drawing
issues that you may run into and
some solutions that you can use.
Let's open my project up.
This is another incredibly sexy
application that draws three images.
Helpfully,
my designer has chosen to embed the
scale factor right into the image
so we can all tell what they are.
And we're drawing this
in three different ways.
This is the one on the left, obviously,
is a regular NS image view.
The one in the middle
is an off-screen bitmap.
And then the one on the right is
a custom layer that I'm inserting.
So right now, we can see that all
these images are at 1x.
Thanks.
So the first thing I need to do,
like we did before,
is grab my 2x image and just drag it in.
and Rebuild.
Now they're all drawn at 2x.
Well, I'm done, right?
Well, one thing that's somewhat hard to
demonstrate here is what happens
if you've got one display at
1x and another display at 2x.
What we're not seeing here is that
if this display was running at 1x
and I had a 2x display attached,
the off-screen bitmap and the
custom layer images would actually
always be drawing the 2x image.
They'd just be scaling it down.
And that's not any better.
So we're actually still not done here.
So let's look at how we're drawing
the off-screen bitmap image.
I can see there's a cache image method
that he calls lock focus and then calls
composite to point with another image.
And then we're drawing that image
with composite to point again.
So how can we make this better?
Using my demo file that we all have.
So I'm going to copy this and
I'll explain it once it's at
its much larger font size.
So here is a much larger method.
[Transcript missing]
at the pixel size,
so that's scaled up by the scale
factor that we're drawing into.
[Transcript missing]
and Dan Schimpf.
We're going to get a unit size,
use convert size to backing to see what
in pixels how big that unit size becomes,
compare it against my cached image scale,
then I can know if I need
to recache that image.
Then we're going to draw that
cached image in the normal spot.
You may think, well,
that's all fine and dandy.
That's a lot more code
than I used to have,
though.
Is there anything better?
And it turns out there is.
. I can take all of this code, copy it,
and replace it with
something much smaller.
There's a new method on
NSImage and Mountain Lion for
drawing NSImages using a block.
So in my cache image method,
what we can do is create a new image with
the logical size that we're drawing into,
the point size,
and then using this block,
AppKit will invoke this block when
it needs to redraw that image.
So it will cache the bitmap,
cache the drawn contents.
But any time we need to redraw it
because of scale factor changes,
we'll use this block again.
[Transcript missing]
So what's the problem there?
CA layers can have primarily
have CG images as their contents.
And so what's the problem here?
Well, if you've got a 1X
monitor and a 2X monitor,
how is it going to know which
image to pick for this case?
Because I'm not really passing
any context information in.
So what's it going to do?
It's going to pick the
densest screen and use that.
So this is always going to pick
the 2X image and get me the
CG image for that from the image.
Well, since 10.6,
you can actually set the NS image
as the contents of a CA layer.
So that can be your first step.
And then that could be it right there.
Because AppKit will automatically
switch back and forth.
If you've got an NS image in a layer,
it'll know to switch out the
actual pixels based on what
scale factor it needs to draw.
So you could stop right there.
If you've got something more
complex than just a simple image,
it's going to know to switch out
the actual pixels based on what
scale factor it needs to draw.
There's a couple other things you can do.
You can use the delegate method.
So, let's say,
let's replace this with -- I'm
going to make myself the delegate.
and Dan Schimpf, and then copy this.
And again,
this is going to be more complicated than
you need to just for a simple image case,
but if you've got more complicated
drawing that you want to do over
that image or something else,
this is a good way to do it.
So then I have this delegate method,
should inherit content scale.
I say, yes,
we do want to inherit that content scale.
And that's going to then
immediately go back and try to
redraw the contents of that image,
which is going to then
call this other method,
the other delegate method,
draw layer in the context.
I'm going to make an
NSGraphics context out of that.
And again,
if you've got something more complicated,
you can replace this section.
But this is just whatever you're
drawing into your layer can be here.
But you'll get automatically
redrawn when that layer needs to
be drawn at a new scale factor.
Okay, so those are some simple problems
you may have drawing images.
So for more information on all of this...
and we highly encourage you to
check out the documentation.
These are all new guides
on High Resolution.
Highly recommend you check these out.
It's a great read.
Really keep you up at night.
The Apple developer forums are
there for any help that you may need
from your fellow developers and us.
Okay.
So a summary of what we covered today.
There are new High Resolution display
modes for your hardware that corresponds
to four pixels on screen for every point.
So what you need to do to adapt this,
you need to add 2x bitmaps to
your apps for all of your 1x art,
and you need to look at your
icons and up-res them as well.
You need to look at your code and
see what you can clean up for 2x.
It may not be a lot,
and your users will definitely thank you.
and you need to make sure that
you're handling display changes.
So not just, I launch at 2x and I'm
always going to be at 2x,
but I need to handle going from
1x to 2x and then back again.
and Dan Schimpf.
And then please read the documentation.
We worked on it very hard and it's great.
Thank you very much for coming.
Have a great week.